README.rst, before:

IATI Dashboard
==============

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/IATI/IATI-Dashboard.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/IATI/IATI-Dashboard
.. image:: https://requires.io/github/IATI/IATI-Dashboard/requirements.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://requires.io/github/IATI/IATI-Dashboard/requirements/?branch=master
    :alt: Requirements Status
.. image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/IATI/IATI-Dashboard/badge.png?branch=master
    :target: https://coveralls.io/r/IATI/IATI-Dashboard?branch=master
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-GPLv3-blue.svg
    :target: https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Dashboard/blob/master/GPL.md

Introduction
------------

The IATI dashboard is a displays key numbers and graphs about the data on the `IATI registry <http://iatiregistry.org/>`__.

See the dashboard in action at http://dashboard.iatistandard.org

The dashboard is in beta, all contents/urls/machine readable downloads are subject to change.

Technology Overview
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The dashboard mostly in Python, with some helper Bash scripts.

Python scripts:

* ``make_html.py`` contains is a Flask application that makes use of Frozen Flask to generate some static HTML.
* ``make_csv.py`` generates CSV files. 
* ``plots.py`` generates static images of graphs using matplotlib.

Bash helper scripts:

* The main source of data for the dashboard is stats generated by `IATI-Stats <https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Stats>`_ (about the data on the IATI registry). ``get_stats.sh`` can be used to fetch a nightly calculated copy of these stats.
* The dashboard also uses various other data from online sources (including GitHub). These can be fetched using ``fetch_data.sh``.
* ``git.sh`` runs all the above commands, see Usage below.

Installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Requirements:

* Unix based setup (e.g. Linux, Mac OS X) with bash etc.
* Python 2.7
* python-virtualenv (optional)
* Development files for libfreetype, libpng, libxml and libxslt e.g. ``libfreetype6-dev libpng-dev libxml2-dev libxslt-dev``.

  (alternatively, you may be able to install some of the python dependencies in 
  requirements.txt using your package manager)


To install:

.. code-block:: bash

    ## Set up a virtual environment (recommended)
    # Create a virtual environment
    virtualenv pyenv
    # Activate the virtual environment
    # (you need to this every time you open a new terminal session)
    source pyenv/bin/activate

    ## Install python dependencies
    ## Use pip as described below, or your distro's package manager to install
    ## the dependcies in requirements.txt
    # If you are running a less recent linux distro, you will need to install distribute
    easy_install -U distribute
    pip install -r requirements.txt

    # Create a configuration file
    # Currently this is only used for GitHub credentials to make requests to the GitHub api
    # You should be able to run the dashboard in live development mode (see Development below)
    # without this file. (Although the GitHub tab will throw an error).
    cp config.py.example config.py # And provide the necessary values

Usage
^^^^^

The following steps are performed every night on our `deployed dashboard <http://dashboard.iatistandard.org/>`__:

.. code-block:: bash
    
    # Fetch the necessary calculated stats
    ./get_stats.sh
    # Fetch some extra data from github and github gists
    ./fetch_data.sh

    mkdir out
    python plots.py
    python make_csv.py
    python make_html.py

make_html.py will output a MissingURLGeneratorWarning. This is expected, as some of the URLs defined are for the live development server only (see below).

The full list of steps for our deployment can be found in ``git.sh``. (The name of this is now a misnomer as the output is no longer a git repository - previously a commit was pushed to GitHub pages.)

Development
^^^^^^^^^^^

For development, you can use the live Flask development server, instead of Frozen Flask.

.. code-block:: bash

    python make_html.py --live

Using the live development server is highly recommended, because it displays full bracktraces for 500 errors, whereas frozen flask does not.

License
^^^^^^^

::

    Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Ben Webb <bjwebb67@googlemail.com>
    Copyright (C) 2013-2014 David Carpenter <caprenter@gmail.com>

    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Commit message:

[#184] Explain generating stats yourself better in README

README.rst, after:

IATI Dashboard
==============

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/IATI/IATI-Dashboard.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/IATI/IATI-Dashboard
.. image:: https://requires.io/github/IATI/IATI-Dashboard/requirements.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://requires.io/github/IATI/IATI-Dashboard/requirements/?branch=master
    :alt: Requirements Status
.. image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/IATI/IATI-Dashboard/badge.png?branch=master
    :target: https://coveralls.io/r/IATI/IATI-Dashboard?branch=master
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-GPLv3-blue.svg
    :target: https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Dashboard/blob/master/GPL.md

Introduction
------------

The IATI dashboard is a displays key numbers and graphs about the data on the `IATI registry <http://iatiregistry.org/>`__.

See the dashboard in action at http://dashboard.iatistandard.org

The dashboard is in beta, all contents/urls/machine readable downloads are subject to change.

This repository is the code for the dashboard frontend. Stats are generated from the Registry by stats code in a separate repository - https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Stats 

Technology Overview
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The dashboard mostly in Python, with some helper Bash scripts.

Python scripts:

* ``make_html.py`` contains is a Flask application that makes use of Frozen Flask to generate some static HTML.
* ``make_csv.py`` generates CSV files. 
* ``plots.py`` generates static images of graphs using matplotlib.

Bash helper scripts:

* The main source of data for the dashboard is stats generated by `IATI-Stats <https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Stats>`_ (about the data on the IATI registry). ``get_stats.sh`` can be used to fetch a nightly calculated copy of these stats. (or see calculating your own stats section below)
* The dashboard also uses various other data from online sources (including GitHub). These can be fetched using ``fetch_data.sh``.
* ``git.sh`` runs all the above commands, see Usage below.

Installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Requirements:

* Unix based setup (e.g. Linux, Mac OS X) with bash etc.
* Python 2.7
* python-virtualenv (optional)
* Development files for libfreetype, libpng, libxml and libxslt e.g. ``libfreetype6-dev libpng-dev libxml2-dev libxslt-dev``.

  (alternatively, you may be able to install some of the python dependencies in 
  requirements.txt using your package manager)


To install:

.. code-block:: bash

    ## Set up a virtual environment (recommended)
    # Create a virtual environment
    virtualenv pyenv
    # Activate the virtual environment
    # (you need to this every time you open a new terminal session)
    source pyenv/bin/activate

    ## Install python dependencies
    ## Use pip as described below, or your distro's package manager to install
    ## the dependcies in requirements.txt
    # If you are running a less recent linux distro, you will need to install distribute
    easy_install -U distribute
    pip install -r requirements.txt

    # Create a configuration file
    # Currently this is only used for GitHub credentials to make requests to the GitHub api
    # You should be able to run the dashboard in live development mode (see Development below)
    # without this file. (Although the GitHub tab will throw an error).
    cp config.py.example config.py # And provide the necessary values

Usage
^^^^^

The following steps are performed every night on our `deployed dashboard <http://dashboard.iatistandard.org/>`__. (On our servers, the dashboard is actually deployed using `this salt file <https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Websites/blob/master/salt/dashboard.sls>`__.

.. code-block:: bash
    
    # Fetch the necessary calculated stats
    ./get_stats.sh
    # Fetch some extra data from github and github gists
    ./fetch_data.sh

    mkdir out
    python plots.py
    python make_csv.py
    python make_html.py

make_html.py will output a MissingURLGeneratorWarning. This is expected, as some of the URLs defined are for the live development server only (see below).

The full list of steps for our deployment can be found in ``git.sh``. (The name of this is now a misnomer as the output is no longer a git repository - previously a commit was pushed to GitHub pages.)

Development
^^^^^^^^^^^

For development, you can use the live Flask development server, instead of Frozen Flask.

.. code-block:: bash

    python make_html.py --live

Using the live development server is highly recommended, because it displays full bracktraces for 500 errors, whereas frozen flask does not.

Calculating your own stats for the dashboard
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The dashboard requires a `stats-calculated` directory, which can be downloaded using the `get_stats.sh` shell script as described above, or calculated yourself using http://github.com/IATI/IATI-Stats . `stats-calculated` corresponds to the `gitout` directory generated by `IATI-Stat's git.sh <https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Stats#running-for-every-commit-in-the-data-directory>`__.

Often you only want to regenerate the current stats, use `get_stats.sh` to download the pre-calculated historical stats and just replace the stats-calculated/current directory with the out directory produced by running the `loop, aggregate and invert commands individually <https://github.com/IATI/IATI-Stats#getting-started>`__.

License
^^^^^^^

::

    Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Ben Webb <bjwebb67@googlemail.com>
    Copyright (C) 2013-2014 David Carpenter <caprenter@gmail.com>

    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
